Achieving algorithm agility. See #1250 (#1284)
httpwg/http-extensions: draft-ietf-httpbis-digest-headers.md

representation metadata, payload transformations and HTTP methods on Digest is
provided in {{examples-unsolicited}} and {{examples-solicited}}.

A `Digest` field MAY contain multiple representation-data-digest values.
For example, a server may provide representation-data-digest values using different algorithms,
allowing it to support a population of clients with different evolving capabilities;
this is particularly useful in support of transitioning away
from weaker algorithms should the need arise (see {{algorithm-agility}}).
Another use case for sending multiple checksums is
for responses expected to reside in caches shared by users with

> different browsers.

Reviewer: This sentence seems to me to just repeat the notion of evolving capability already introduced in the paragraph.

I suspect this text, originally in RFC 3230, was attempting to address transparent caching proxies. I'm not convinced we need to keep it in that form given how many HTTP deployments work. Maybe @mnot has an opinion.

Author: @LPardue Are you proposing this?

```suggestion
```

Reviewer: Yes.

provided in {{examples-unsolicited}} and {{examples-solicited}}.

A `Digest` field MAY contain multiple representation-data-digest values. This
could be useful
to transition from weak algorithms or
for responses expected to reside in caches shared by users with

> different browsers, for example.

Reviewer: If we're going to expand this we can probably write this better. The first thing that spring into my head is something like

A `Digest` field MAY contain multiple representation-data-digest values. For example, a server may provide representation-data-digest values using different algorithms, allowing it to support a population of clients with different evolving capabilities.

Reviewer: and optionally tack on

"This is particularly useful in support of transitioning away from weaker algorithms should the need arise; see {{algorithm-agiity}}"

Author: Done

## Algorithm Agility

Algorithm agility is achieved establishing the IANA Digest Algorithm Values registry,
and adding it the "Status" field making it possible to deprecate and obsolete insecure algorithms.

Transition from weak algorithms can be achieved
negotiating the most suitable digest-algorithm using `Want-Digest` (see {{want-digest}})
or sending multiple representation-data-digest, thus allowing the receiver to select the best
possible digest-algorithm.
Even in this case, it is good practice to avoid sending non-necessary
representation-data-digest values because the receiver could either ignore them (see {{digest}})

> or uselessly consume resources to evaluate all of them.

Reviewer: Now that there is text, I can see the bones of what you're trying to say. But I think we can rewrite this to be a bit clearer. Here's strawperson text:

"The security properties of digest algorithms are not fixed. It is in an endpoint's best interest to support and use the most secure algorithms that are at its disposal. However, there is little that this specification can do to mandate behaviour. To help endpoints make better algorithm choices a new "Status" field has been added to the IANA Digest Algorithm Values registry (see Section xyz), which contains the most-recent appraisal of the algorithm. Algorithms that have been found insecure or otherwise undesirable can be marked as "deprecated" or "obsolete". Algorithms with no known problems can be marked as "Standard", while new algorithms can be marked "Experimental".

An endpoint might have a preference for algorithms, such as preferring "standard" algorithms over "deprecated" ones. Algorithm agility is supported by negotiation of digest-algorithm using ``Want-Digest` (see {{want-digest}})` or by sending multiple representation-data-digest values for the receiver to choose. Endpoints are advised that sending multiple values consumes resources, which may be wasted if the receiver ignores them (see {{digest}})."

## Algorithm Agility

The security properties of digest-algorithms are not fixed.
Algorithm agility is achieved establishing the IANA Digest Algorithm Values

> registry (see {{iana-digest-algorithm-registry}}) and Section 2.1 of {{?RFC7696}}).

Reviewer: How about,

> Algorithm Agility (see {{?RFC7696}}) is achieved by providing implementations flexibility in their choice of digest-algorithm from the IANA Digest Algorithm Values registy in {{iana-digest-algorithm-registry}}.

Author: applied!

> Algorithm agility is achieved establishing the IANA Digest Algorithm Values
> registry (see {{iana-digest-algorithm-registry}}) and Section 2.1 of {{?RFC7696}}).

Author: ```suggestion
Algorithm Agility (see {{?RFC7696}}) is achieved by providing implementations flexibility in their choice of
digest-algorithm from the IANA Digest Algorithm Values registy in {{iana-digest-algorithm-registry}}.
```

> To help endpoints make secure algorithm choices,

Reviewer: Let's not say secure, because algorithms will inevitably be broken. How about 

```suggestion
To help endpoints understand weaker algorithms from stonger ones,
```

this document adds to the IANA Digest Algorithm Values registry
a new "Status" field containing the most-recent appraisal of the digest-algorithm according
to the algorithm used to compute the checksum based on the type and status of the primary document

> in which the checksum algorithm is defined.

Reviewer: The remember of the paragraph is hard to parse and I don't think it is strictly true. I'd like to think that we can deprecate algorithms without the need of coordination with the original defining document. The reason some algorithm becomes deprecated or obsolete could because it is a dead. I think it would be simpler to just remove everything after "... appraisal of the digest-algorithm."

Author: In our spec  https://github.com/httpwg/http-extensions/blame/master/draft-ietf-httpbis-digest-headers.md#L1079:1082
we reused this part of RFC3864 

      Specify "standard", "experimental", "informational", "historic",
      "obsoleted", or some other appropriate value according to the type
      and status of the primary document in which it is defined.  For
      non-IETF specifications, those formally approved by other
      standards bodies should be labelled as "standard"; others may be
      "informational" or "deprecated" depending on the reason for
      registration.

which is more relaxed than the present. I will relax our statement and ask to reviewers for feedback so that we can land this PR.

Author: ```suggestion
this document adds to the IANA Digest Algorithm Values registry
a new "Status" field containing the most-recent appraisal of the digest-algorithm.
```

The entries associated to a checksum algorithm which becomes insecure or otherwise undesirable

> can be marked as "deprecated",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
are marked as "deprecated",
```

let's use the active voice.

> while the ones associated to a standardized algorithm without known problems can be marked

Reviewer: ```suggestion
while the ones associated to a standardized algorithm without known problems are marked
```

as "standard".

An endpoint might have a preference for algorithms,
such as preferring "standard" algorithms over "deprecated" ones.
Transition from weak algorithms is supported
by negotiation of digest-algorithm using `Want-Digest` (see {{want-digest}})

> or by sending multiple representation-data-digest values for the receiver to choose.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
or by sending multiple representation-data-digest values from which the receiver chooses.
```

Endpoints are advised that sending multiple values consumes resources,

> which may be wasted if the receiver ignores them (see {{digest}})."

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
which may be wasted if the receiver ignores them (see {{digest}}).
```
